---
title: "Linux Journey - 01 Command Line PART 1"
date: 2024-09-01 12:00:00 -500 
categories: [Linux Journey, 01 Command Line]
tags: [linux,journey,command-line]
author: Christoph K
---

# Linux Journey 

# 01. Command Line Part 1

# Important: 


My goal here is to fully understand what I am doing with Linux. Over the years I noticed that I learn best, if I document it and try to explain it to myself in different words. 
I know that the webpage https://linuxjourney.com/ is already written for beginners never the less I want to rephrase, document and repeat the commands here. 

My summary may not be complete so I would recomment you that you actually learn Linux from https://linuxjourney.com/ yourself :-) 



### 1.1 The Shell

What is the shell? 

    It is a program that takes your commands from the keyboard and sends them to the operating system. 

Almost all Linux Distributions use as default `bash`. (*Bourne Again shell*)

Other shells are:

    ksh, zsh, tsch

The `$` sign means, that we are a normal user using `bash`. If there is a `#` it means we are root user.

Our first command here: 

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# echo "Hello, please use this text as output"
Hello, please use this text as output
```

### 1.2 pwd ( Print Working Directory) 

Everything is a file, even folders. Every file is organized in a hierachical directory tree. The `first directory` is the `root directory`. The symbol here is `/`. Lets see the whole tree.

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# ls /
bin  boot  dev  etc  home  init  lib  lib32  lib64  libx32  lost+found  media  mnt  opt  proc  root  run  sbin  snap  srv  sys  tmp  usr  var

```


That shows the directory tree from `/`. 

With `pwd` we can find out, where we are at the moment.

```root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# pwd
/home/linux_journey
```

### 1.3 cd (Change Directory)

With the command `cd` we can move around the filesystem. We need paths to navigate. There are two different ways to specify a path - `absolute` and `relative` paths. 

- Absolute path: This is the complete path from the root directory (`/`) 
- Relative parth: This is the path from where you are currently in the filesystem


Lets try it a bit:

```
root@PREDATOR-01:/# cd /home
root@PREDATOR-01:/home# cd linux_journey/
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey#

```

Here some shortcuts:

- `cd .`  (current directory)   This is the directory you are currently in
- `cd ..` (parent directory)    Takes you to the directory above your current
- `cd ~`  (home directory)      This directory defaults to your home directory. (User) 
- `cd -`  (previous directory)  This will take you to the previous directory you were just at.


### 1.4 ls (List Directories)

The command `ls` lists the content in our current directory by default. You can also specify the path.



```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# ls -la
total 8
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 Sep  5 15:45 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 root root 4096 Sep  5 15:11 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root    0 Sep  5 15:45 .test1.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root    0 Sep  5 15:44 test1.txt
```
The flag `l` lists detailed informations about the file. For example permissions, size and date created.

The flag `a` lists all files even hidden files in your directory (with "." files are hidden normally)

### 1.5 touch 

With `touch` we can create new files. 

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# touch test2.txt
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# ls
test1.txt  test2.txt
```
### 1.6 file

In Linux filenames arent required to represent the contents of a file. You can write whatever ending on a filename which you like. With the `file` command, we can find out, what a file really is.


```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# file test2.txt
test2.txt: ASCII text
```
### 1.7 cat

With `cat` you can read the contents of a file. Its not good for large files and for much content. There are other options for those files like `less` or `tail/head`

Lets output from a file:

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# cat test2.txt
I wrote something...
```

### 1.8 less

Like mentioned in the `1.7 cat` we can use `less` for display a large file paged, so it is besser accessible.

Commands for navigate trough less:

- q - quits the program
- g - moves to the beginning of the text file
- G - moves to the end of the text file
- / - searching inside the text file (/"Search")
- h - help inside `less`
- PG up and PG Down - next page or page back

### 1.9 history

We can use `history` if we want to see which commands we have previously entered.  
With CTRL + R we can also "reverse search" an entered command.

This is my history: 

```bash
  107  ls -la
  108  touch test2.txt
  109  ls
  110  nano test2.txt
  111  file test2.txt
  112  cat test2.txt
  113  less test2.txt
  114  history
  ```

with `clear` we can clear our terminal. 

### 1.10 cp (copy)

With `cp` we can copy files from A to B. 

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# cp test1.txt /home/test2.txt
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# cd ..
root@PREDATOR-01:/home# ls
linux_journey  test2.txt
```

I copied the file `test1.txt` to `/home/`and renamed it also to `test2.txt`.

You can also copy multiple files with wildcards. 

- `*` the wildcard of wildcards. represents all single characters or any string
- `?` used to represent one character
- `[]`used to represent any character within the brackets

```bash
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# cp *.txt /home/
root@PREDATOR-01:/home/linux_journey# cd ..
root@PREDATOR-01:/home# ls
linux_journey  test1.txt  test2.txt
```

The flag `-r` is very usefull, it means "recursive" which tells the command to copy everything inside a directory, including subfolders and files.

    cp -r folder1 folder2

This will copy all files and subfolders from `folder1` to `folder2`.


Also very good is the flag `-i` for "interactive". It asks you if you really want to overwrite or similar. 




### The next commands will be in Part 2.


