---
title: "Linux Journey - 01 Command Line PART 2"
date: 2024-09-01 13:00:00 -500 
categories: [Linux Journey, 01 Command Line]
tags: [linux,journey,command-line]
author: Christoph K
---

# Linux Journey 

# 01. Command Line Part 2

# Important: 


My goal here is to fully understand what I am doing with Linux. Over the years I noticed that I learn best, if I document it and try to explain it to myself in different words. 
I know that the webpage https://linuxjourney.com/ is already written for beginners never the less I want to rephrase, document and repeat the commands here. 

My summary may not be complete so I would recomment you that you actually learn Linux from https://linuxjourney.com/ yourself :-) 


### 1.11 mv (Move)

This command moves files and renames them if wanted. Similar to `cp` in terms of flags and function.

`$ mv oldfile newfile`

Also rename directories:

`$ mv directory1 directory2`


### 1.12 mkdir (make directory)

We had with `touch` the command for creating files. Now we want to create directories with `mkdir`. 

Creating multiple folders.
`mkdir folder1 folder 2 `

Also possible to create subdirectories with the `-p` (parent flag)

`mkdir -p folder1/folder2/folder3`

This would create all folders, which not exist. 

### 1.13 rm (Remove) 

We can create files and directories, now we need a command for remove them. With `rm` we just delete the specified folders/files.

`rm file1`.

Be careful here with this command. There is no trash can, where we can recover the deleted files. 

For write protected files we can use `-f (force) `

`rm -f file1` 

Again with flag `-i ` you get a prompt. (Interactive) 

For remove all files and subdirectories it may have, we can use the flag `-r` for `recursive`. 

For directories we use `rmdir folder1`. Same flags as with `rm`


### 1.14 find

We need a search here, after creating and deleting so many files and folders. With `find` we can search for files.

```bash
$find /home -name "Test1.txt" 
```

We specify the folder first and then with `-name` we search for the file.

With the flag `-type` we can also search for folders. (d)

### 1.15 help

If you dont know which flags you use for a command, you can use `--help` behind the command.

`ssh --help`

### 1.16 man

And if you need more information than with ` --help` then you can use `man` for "manual". There are all flags and nessecary informations about the command.

`man ssh`

### 1.17 whatis

If you have no idea, what this command does, you can ask it with `whatis` what it does.

`whatis ssh`

### 1.18 alias

Cou can create an `alias` for commands you need more often. 

`alias check = "ls -la" `

Now `ls -la` can be used when you type `check`. After reboot the alias will be gone. To add a permanent alias you have to add the alias in the `~/.bashrc `.


If you dont like your alias anymore in the same session you can just use `unalias`.

### 1.19 exit

With `exit` we can exit the shell here. We can also use the `logout` command.



